---
title: Cactus Farm
link: https://www.pclassic.org/static/media/PClassic2021fProblems.274d68387a300a1c483f.pdf#page=18
problem: 7
---
<java>// Solved By Mohammad Khan And Alvin Li
public static boolean matchable(String initialPattern, String finalPattern) {
    int il = initialPattern.length();
    int fl = finalPattern.length();

    char[] temp = new char[fl];
    for (int i = 0; i < fl; i++) temp[i] = '0';
    for (int i = 0; i < il; i++) temp[i] = initialPattern.charAt(i);

    for (int i = 0; i <= fl-il; i++) {
        boolean ok = true;
        for (int j = 0; j < il; j++) {
            if (initialPattern.charAt(j) == '1' &&
                finalPattern.charAt(i+j) == '0') {
                ok = false;
                break;
            }
        }
        if (ok) {
            for (int j = 0; j < il; j++) {
                if (initialPattern.charAt(j) == '1') temp[i+j] = '1';
            }
        }
    }

    for (int i = 0; i < fl; i++) {
        if (temp[i] != finalPattern.charAt(i)) return false;
    }
    return true;
}</java>

The idea of this problem is that you are given an initial pattern and you have to copy it onto substrings of a blank template pattern, and you have to see if through repetitions of this process if you can make the template into the final pattern. The first observation is that there are only fl-il positions where you can move the initial pattern to and moving the pattern to the same position multiple times does not have any extra effect, so this means that we only have to loop through the fl-il positions to see if we can somehow get our final pattern.

Now that we are looping through the initial positions, we have to find a way to see if we can copy the initial pattern without messing up the pattern. Lets consider position j in the initial pattern and position i+j in the final pattern (this is the jth position of the substring of final pattern starting at position i). Consider the case of final[i+j] = 0, if initial[j] = 0, this is valid to copy over because they are the same, but if initial[j] = 1, we can't copy this over without never achieving the final pattern. Now consider final[i+j] = 1, if initial[j] = 0, then this is valid because we can always turn that 0 into a 1 later, and if initial[j] = 1, this is also valid because now final and initial match.

We can now check all positions in the initial pattern and the substring of the final pattern, and if all these positions can be validly copied over, then we can greedily decide to copy the initial pattern over to the template. Also notice that the problem says that the initial pattern must be copied over at position 0, so we implement this change in the ```for (int i = 0; i < il; i++) temp[i] = initialPattern.charAt(i);``` loop.

Now that we have all our changes made, we just have to check if this template is now equal to the final pattern, and if it is return true else return false.