---
title: Practice with BSTs and Priority Queues
---
https://leetcode.com/problems/find-k-pairs-with-smallest-sums/

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Important notes</h1>
(I prefer saying sets instead of BST's)
Sets and priority queues all require a "comparator." That is, we need a consistent way to compare two elements in these data structures.
As long as this requirement is satisfied, we can theoretically put any type of object in the data structure such as pairs, vectors, or strings. 
(The efficiency will depend on the time complexity of the comparator function though).

In general, most data structures require a specific operation and its time complexity includes that operation.

Also if you ever want to iterate through a set or PQ, its usually not a good idea to modify the data structure as you iterate, unless you're confident you won't mess up anything. 

Implementation detail: for multisets, if you want to erase a specific instance of an element (if there are multiple), always do `s.erase(s.find(x));` since `s.erase(x)` will erase ALL instances of `x`.

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Solution</h1>
For simplicity, call the two arrays $A,B$. (Implicitly) construct an array $C$ where $C[i][j]$ represents $A[i]+B[j]$.

Notice that:
- Each row is sorted horizontally
- Each column is sorted vertically

Then imagine having "N pointers" where each row is assigned a pointer.
Initially the pointer should be set to the first element of that row.

Consider the following algorithm:
- Find the minimum of the N pointers, let that be $M$
- Append the value at $M$ to our answer and increment $M$ by 1
- Repeat until our answer has K entries

Notice that at any given moment, we only need to consider N possible values for our minimum pairwise sum.
We can guarantee that the minimum sum in these N pointers is the smallest pairwise sum that we haven't appended yet.
This is because for each row, if we have any pairwise sum less than our current minimum, it must've already been processed and appended to our answer.

In order to efficiently find the minimum of the N pointers, utilize a priority queue since the only operations we require are inserting new sums and removing the smallest sum. It will store an array of the form $(A[i]+B[i], i, j)$ (since the default comparator for arrays is in lexicographical order).

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Code</h1>
<cpp>
class Solution {
public:
    vector&ltvector&ltint&gt&gt kSmallestPairs(
        vector&ltint&gt& nums1, 
        vector&ltint&gt& nums2, int k) {
        <db />
        using T = array&ltint,3&gt;
        priority_queue&ltT, vector&ltT&gt, greater&ltT&gt&gt pq;
        int n = nums1.size();
        for (int i = 0; i &lt n; i++) {
            pq.push({nums1[i]+nums2[0], i, 0});
        }
        vector&ltvector&ltint&gt&gt ans(k);
        for (int z = 0; z &lt k; z++) {
            auto [v,i,j] = pq.top();
            pq.pop();
            <db />
            ans[z] = {nums1[i],nums2[j]};
            if (j+1 < nums2.size()) {
                pq.push({nums1[i]+nums2[j+1], i, j+1});
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
</cpp>
<db />

https://cses.fi/problemset/task/1076/

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Solution</h1>

In many sliding window problems, it makes sense to maintain a set of elements of the current window. Every time you move it, insert the next element and remove the back element. This way, you don't have to reconsider elements that both windows share (especially when the windows can be quite large).

We'll create a data structure that can efficiently:
- Insert an element
- Remove a specific element
- Find median

Imagine the set of elements were indexed and in sorted order.
By properties of a median, we only really care about elements near the center. This is because any insertion or removal can only change the median by at most 1 index.

Let's keep track of elements smaller than the median and elements greater than the median in two multisets, called $low$ and $high$. For simplicity, $|low| \geq |high|$ therefore the median is $\max(low)$.

Whenever we add an element, we should first decide where to put it (by comparing it to the current median). However, this can make the two set's sizes "imbalanced" which makes the new median different from the current median. We can accomodate this by removing $\max(low)$ from $low$ and putting it into $high$ or removing $\min(high)$ from $high$ and putting it into $low$ (depending on which set is larger).

Notice that if we didn't need to remove a specific element, then a priority queue would have also worked. However, this removal operation makes multisets ideal here.

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Code</h1>

<cpp>
#include &ltbits/stdc++.h&gt
using namespace std;

multiset&ltint&gt low, high;
void balance() {
    if (low.size() - high.size() &lt= 1) return;
    if (low.size() &gt high.size()) {
        int tmp = *low.rbegin();
        low.erase(prev(low.end()));
        high.insert(tmp);
    }
    else {
        int tmp = *high.begin();
        high.erase(high.begin());
        low.insert(tmp);
    }
}
void ins(int x) {
    if (low.empty() || x &lt= *low.rbegin()) low.insert(x);
    else high.insert(x);
    balance();
}
void rem(int x) {
    if (x &lt= *low.rbegin()) low.erase(low.find(x));
    else high.erase(high.find(x));
    balance();
}
int get_med() {
    return *low.rbegin();
}
int main() {
    ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
    
    int n,k; cin &gt&gt n &gt&gt k;
    vector&ltint&gt a(n);
    for (int& i: a) cin &gt&gt i;

    for (int i = 0; i &lt k; i++) {
        ins(a[i]);
    }
    cout &lt&lt get_med() &lt&lt ' ';
    
    for (int i = k; i &lt n; i++) {
        rem(a[i-k]);
        ins(a[i]);
        cout &lt&lt get_med() &lt&lt ' ';
    }
}</cpp>