---
title: Math and Number Theory Continued
---

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Binary Exponentation</h1>

(Also known as modular exponentiation, fast exponentiation, exponentiation by squaring depending on the context)

How can we calculate $b^k \pmod m$* efficiently?<br>
*Note: this assumes reader is adequately familiar with modular arithmetic

Observe that when we square numbers, $(b^a)^2 = b^{2a} \pmod m$, we multiply its power by two.
Using this, we can easily calculate values in the form $b^{2^a} \pmod m$ by repeatedly squaring $a$ times.

How can we use this for exponents that aren't powers of two?<br>
Notice that any arbitary number can be expressed as a sum of powers of two by converting to binary.<br>
For example, $11 = 8 + 2 + 1 = 2^3 + 2^1 + 2^0$.
Therefore, $b^{11} = b^{2^3 + 2^1 + 2^0} = b^{2^3} \cdot b^{2^1} \cdot b^{2^0} \pmod m$.

Hence, we can keep a separate variable that calculates $b^{2^a} \pmod m$ and multiply that to our answer whenever $k$ contains that power of two.

<cpp>
using ll = long long;
ll bExpo(ll b, ll k, ll m) {
    b %= m, k %= m;
    ll ans = 1;
    while (k != 0) {
        if (k%2 == 1) ans = (ans*b)%m;
        b = (b * b)%m;
        k /= 2;
    }
    return ans;
}
</cpp>

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Euclidean GCD</h1>

How can we calculate $\gcd(a,b)$ efficiently?<br>
(WLOG, assume $a < b$)

We *could* prime factorize $a,b$ and take the minimum of the exponents and multiply them back together but that's <br>$O(\sqrt a + \sqrt b)$. We can do better!

The important observation is that $\gcd(a,b) = \gcd(a,b-a)$.
The proof for this is left to the reader.

We can conclude $\gcd(a,b) = \gcd(a, b \pmod a)$ since taking a modulo is the same as repeated subtraction. Then, we just keep repeating this to reduce the value of the two inputs.
The point where we can no longer reduce $a,b$ is when one of them becomes $0$, in which case we can return the nonzero value of the other.

For example, $\gcd(15,20) = \gcd(15, 5) = \gcd(5, 15) = \gcd(5, 0) = \gcd(0, 5) = 5$.

In order to analyze the time complexity, consider the worst case where we need to maximize the number of iterations to reduce $a$ to $0$. This happens when `b%a = b-a`. Using induction with $a = 1, b = 1$, we can show that the number of iterations is maximized when $a,b$ are consecutive Fibonacci numbers. Since the Fibonacci sequence grows exponentially, the number of iterations grows logarithmicly. <br>
Therefore, the worst case time complexity of Euclidean GCD is $O(\log n)$ although in practice, it is quite fast.

Using the fact that $a\cdot b = \text{lcm}(a,b) \cdot \gcd(a,b)$, we can also efficiently calculate LCM's.

In C++ or Python, there exists a built-in GCD function but for Java, you have to implement it yourself. This algorithm can also be [extended](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Euclidean_algorithm) to solve linear systems.

<cpp>
int gcd (int a, int b) {
    if (b == 0) return a;
    else return gcd (b, a % b);
}
</cpp>