---
title: Library Functions
---
Note this isn't a comprehensive list, feel free to read documentation for all the functions your language provides

<h1 class="text-xl font-bold text-white">Math</h1>

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">max/min</h1>

max and min of two numbers, commutative.

Java & Python allow for different types as long as able to be casted e.g., int with double.

Only Python allows for an arbitrary number of elements e.g. `min(2,3,4,5)`.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">ceil/floor</h1>

rounds up and down, respectively, for a double or float.

Python and C++ return integers.

Java returns the same type as inputted.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">abs</h1>

absolute value.

returns the same type as inputted but nonnegative.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">sqrt/pow/log</h1>

square root, exponent, log.

usually returns double.

unreliable sometimes because floating point is sometimes janky, rarely used.

All of these functions are $O(1)$.
<db />

<h1 class="text-xl font-bold text-white">Lists</h1>

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">add</h1>

adds element to end of list.

Python: ```append``` (for lists)

C++: ```push_back``` (for vectors)

Java: ```add``` (for ArrayLists)

$O(1)$ if you are appending to the back of the list.

Otherwise, $O(n)$ where n is the number of elements after the index being inserted between.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">fill</h1>

fills a list with values.

Python: ```ls = [0]*n```

Java: ```Arrays.fill(arr, val)``` for arrays, ```Collections.fill(arr, val)``` for arraylists.

C++: ```fill(arr.begin(), arr.end(), val)```

$O(n)$.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">remove</h1>

removes element from list (not usually recommended).

Python:

remove by index: ```arr.pop(ind)```

remove by value: ```arr.remove(val)```

Java:

both remove by value and index are ```arr.remove()```

if you want to remove by index, parameter must be an int.

if you want to remove by value, parameter must be the same type as arraylist's type (e.g., Integer).

C++:

remove by index: ```arr.erase(arr.begin()+ind)```

remove by value: ```arr.erase(find(arr.begin(), arr.end(), val))```

$O(1)$ if you are removing the last element of the list.

Otherwise, $O(n)$ where n is the number of elements after the index being inserted between.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">find index of</h1>

finds the first index whose value is equal to the value given.

Python: ```arr.index(val)```

Java: ```arr.indexOf(val)```

C++: ```find(arr.begin()```, ```arr.end()```, ```val)-arr.begin()```

$O(n)$.
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Sorts</h1>

Insertion sort $O(n^2)$, Merge sort $O(nlogn)$, Quick sort average: $O(nlogn)$.

Python uses Tim sort (merge + insertion).

Java uses Quick sort on primitives and Merge sort for nonprimitives.

Java's quick sort may be $O(n^2)$ for versions of Java before Java 14.

C++ uses Intro sort (quick sort + insertion + heap sort if takes too long).
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">Practice</h1>

Given a list, remove all instances of 0 from it and print it out

What's the time complexity if you use remove()? What is it without remove()?
<db />

Given a list, print all pairwise sums in sorted order

Note that there can be duplicates

Sample input:
<br/>
5
<br/>
9 1 2 4 8

Output:
<br />
3 5 6 9 10 10 11 12 13 17
<db />

<h1 class="font-bold text-white">More practice</h1>

https://usaco.org/index.php?page=viewproblem2&cpid=1059
https://cses.fi/problemset/task/1094/