---
title: Rigging Revolver Rounds
link: https://codeforces.com/gym/516050/problem/F
problem: 10
---
<cpp>// written by Chongtian Ma 

#include &lt;bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

using ll = long long;
const int MOD = 1e9 + 7;
#define all(x) x.begin(), x.end()

// returns a vector of length n, smallest prime that it can be divided by
// runs in O(nloglogn) time.
vector&lt;int> primesieve(int n) {
    vector&lt;int> sieve(n);
    iota(sieve.begin(), sieve.end(), 0);
    for (int i = 2; i < n; i++)
        if (sieve[i] == i)
            for (int j = 2*i; j < n; j += i)
                sieve[j] = min(sieve[j], i);
    return sieve;
}

// only works for numbers <= sieve len
vector&lt;int> primefactors(int x){
	static auto sieve = primesieve(2e5 + 5);
	vector<int> ret;
	while(x > 1){
		int cur = sieve[x];
		while(x % cur == 0){
			x /= cur;
			ret.push_back(cur); 
		}
	}
	return ret;
}

ll modpow(ll a, ll b, ll m){
	ll res = 1;
	while(b){
		if(b & 1) res = (res * a) % m;
		a = (a * a) % m;
		b /= 2;
	}
	return res;
}


void solve(){
	int n; cin >> n;
	vector<int> P(n);
	for(int& i: P){
		cin >> i;
		--i;
	}
	vector<bool> vis(n);
	vector<pair<int, int>> cycles;
	map<int, int> mp;
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
		if(!vis[i]){
			int cyc_len = 0;
			int j = i;
			while(!vis[j]){
				cyc_len++;
				vis[j] = 1;
				j = P[j];
			}
			if(mp[cyc_len] < 2){
				cycles.push_back({cyc_len, i});
				mp[cyc_len]++;
			}
			
		}
	}
	
	int m = cycles.size();
	vector<vector<int>> prime_factors(n + 1);
	for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++){
		prime_factors[i] = primefactors(i);
	}
	vector<multiset<int>> prime_factor_ms(n + 1);
	
	set<int> prime_matter;
	
	array<ll, 3> ans = {-1, -1, -1};
	
	auto re_eval = [&](vector<int> sus, int i, int j) -> void{
		vector<int> new_added_p;
		for(int su : sus) {
			map<int, int> cnt;
			for(int l: prime_factors[su]){
				cnt[l]++;
			}
			for(auto [p, v] : cnt){
				auto& s = prime_factor_ms[p];
				s.insert(v);
				if(prime_matter.insert(p).second){
					new_added_p.push_back(p);
				}
		    }
	    }
	    
	    ll _lcm = 1;
	    for(int k: prime_matter){
	    	if(prime_factor_ms[k].size() > 0){
	    		_lcm *= modpow(k, *prev(prime_factor_ms[k].end()), MOD);
	    		_lcm %= MOD;
	    	}
	    }
		ans = max(ans, {_lcm, i, j});
	    for(int su : sus) {
			map<int, int> cnt;
			for(int l: prime_factors[su]){
				cnt[l]++;
			}
		     for(auto [p, v] : cnt){
		    	auto& s = prime_factor_ms[p];
				s.erase(s.find(v));
		    }
	    }
	    for(int i: new_added_p){
	    	prime_matter.erase(i);
	    }
	};
	
	auto remove = [&](int k){
		map<int, int> cnt;
		for(int l: prime_factors[k]){
			cnt[l]++;
		}
		for(auto [p, v] : cnt){
			auto& s = prime_factor_ms[p];
			if(s.count(v)){
				s.erase(s.find(v));
			}
		}
	};
	
	auto readd = [&](int k){
		map<int, int> cnt;
		for(int l: prime_factors[k]){
			cnt[l]++;
		}
		for(auto [p, v] : cnt){
			prime_matter.insert(p);
			auto& s = prime_factor_ms[p];
			s.insert(v);
		}
	};
	
	for(int i = 0; i < m; i++){
		readd(cycles[i].first);
	}
	
	for(int i = 0; i < m; i++){
		for(int j = i + 1; j < m; j++){
			// combine these two cycles
			for(int k: {cycles[i].first, cycles[j].first}){
				remove(k);
			}
			int su = cycles[i].first + cycles[j].first;
			re_eval({su}, cycles[i].second, cycles[j].second);
		    
		    for(int k: {cycles[i].first, cycles[j].first}){
				readd(k);
			}
		}
	}
	
	for(int i = 0; i < m; i++){
		int cur = cycles[i].second;
		int cyc_len = cycles[i].first;
		remove(cyc_len);
		
		for(int j = 1; j < cyc_len; j++){
			cur = P[cur];
			re_eval({j, cyc_len - j}, cycles[i].second, cur);
		}
		readd(cyc_len);
	}
	
	cout << ans[0] << " " << ans[1] + 1 << " " << ans[2] + 1 << "\n";
}


int main(){
	cin.tie(0) -> sync_with_stdio(0);
	int t = 1;
	cin >> t;
	while(t--){
		solve();
	}
}</cpp>

There are a lot to consider for this problem. First, let's consider the answer if we can perform no operations. We can model the problem is a graph where there is an edge from every $i$ to $p_i$. Since there are $n$ edges and $n$ vertices, this graph can be decomposed into a functional graph. Since all $p_i$ are guaranteed distinct, we are guaranteed that every vertex $i$ is part of distinct cycle. So essentially, you are given a graph with a bunch of non-intersecting cycles. 

Next, we can see that the answer to the problem is the least common multiple (lcm) of all cycle lengths. Why? For each cycle, if its length is $c_i$, you will need to fire exactly $c_i$ rounds for it to end up at the chamber you started at. Since you want this to apply to all cycles, the least number of times you can ensure this is its lcm.

We can rephrase the questions as the following: Given $c_1, c_2, ... c_m$ where $m$ is the number of cycles, we want to find lcm($c_1, c_2, ... c_m$). Now, we can consider the operations.

The operation swap exactly two edges in the graph. From this, we have two cases: Swap two edges that are not in the same cycle or two edges in the same cycle. The first case essentially merges two cycles together (performing this operation on cycles $i$ and $j$ creates a new cycle $k$ such that $c_k = c_i + c_j$. What this does to array $c$ is the following: erase $c_i$ and $c_j$ from $c$ and insert $c_k$, and recompute the lcm and take the max of all such possible merges. However, if we were to loop through all cycles $i$ and $j$, then our algorithm will take worst case $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$ time, which is bad. This is where a clever optimization from a common technique comes in.

It can be shown that if we have an array of numbers $a_1, a_2, ... $ that sum up to $s$, then there can be at most $\sqrt{s}$ distinct numbers among array $a$. Why? consider the worst case, that is, if $a$ consisted of $1, 2, 3, ..., k$. Since the sum of these natural numbers is $\frac{k \cdot (k + 1)}{2} = s$, we get that $k$ must be approximately $\sqrt{s}$. 

Let's apply this idea to array $c$. We know that $c_1 + c_2 + ... + c_m = n$, since there are $n$ total vertices. This means that there can be at most $\sqrt{n}$ distinct numbers among $c$. Since merging the same $c_i$ and $c_j$ multiple times does not affect our answer (since we are taking lcm of the same number), we only have to track a certain number of each distinct $c_i$. It can be proven that we need to track at most $2$ of each distinct $c_i$!. This is because, in the worst case, we can still merge $c_i$ and $c_j$ if $c_i = c_j$.

Let's prune $c_i$ of numbers where there are more than $2$ duplicates (or you can do this when you originally construct $c$). We have guaranteed that $m$ is approximately at most $\sqrt{n}$. Now, when we run our previous $\mathcal{O}(m^2)$ algorithm, this will take at most $\mathcal{O}(m^2 = n)$ time!

Let's now focus on the second case: where we swap two edges from the same cycle. This essentially breaks the cycle apart into two pieces of lengths $a$ and $c_i - a$. This is possible if we pick two vertices $x$ and $y$ from the same cycle and $y$ is $a$ vertices away from $x$, and swap their edges. Rephrasing the operation in terms of our version of the problem, this operation does the following: erase $c_i$ from $c$, and insert $a$ and $c_i - a$ into $c$. We can focus on one cycle at at time, fix the first vertex in the cycle in which we will do the operation on (it does not matter what vertex), and loop through all other vertices in the cycle. This will take $\mathcal{O}(n)$ time. 

Now, all that's left is to efficiently calculate the lcm! Obviously, we can't take $lcm(c_1, c_2,  ... , c_m)$ naively becuase the lcm can large enough to 64-bit integer overflow. We have to resort to breaking down the lcm function. It is a common technique in number theory that, taking the lcm of an array of numbers is equivalent to multiplying the largest powers of the union of prime factors that make up each number in the array (for a more detailed explanation, refer to <a href="https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/PreAlgebra/Prealgebra_1e_(OpenStax)/02%3A_Introduction_to_the_Language_of_Algebra/2.10%3A_Prime_Factorization_and_the_Least_Common_Multiple_(Part_2)">this article</a>). This means that in our algorithm, we needs to keep track of the prime factors that make up each $c_i$ and the maximum power of each prime factor. Let's denote an array of distinct prime factors as $p_1, p_2, ..., p_k$. Note that $k$ is at most $\log(n)$, since each $c_i$ is bounded by $n$. To keep track of the maximum power for each $p_i$, we can track all possible powers in a multiset. 

Thus, for this problem, it is necessary to create a data structure that needs to efficently track $p$ from $c$ and can efficiently do the following:

\- Insert a number $x$. When $x$ is inserted, it should be immediately broken down to its prime factorization. We then have to loop through all the prime factors and insert its power into the multiset for that prime.

\- Remove a number $x$. When $x$ is removed, it also should be prime factorized, and its prime powers are erased from its respective multisets.

\- Efficiently re-evaluate the lcm of all prime factors present in $p$, taken mod $10^9+7$. This should loop through all elements of $p$ and compute $p_1^{m_1} \cdot p_2^{m_2} \cdot ... \cdot p_k^{m_k}$ where $m_i$ is the largest power for prime $p_i$.

The rest is left up to implementation details. A number can be efficiently prime factorized if we precompute Sieve of Eratosthenes beforehand in ${O}(n \log^2 n)$ time and track the largest prime that divides each number from $1, 2, 3, ..., n$. Since a number can have at most $\log(n) $ prime factors, prime factorizing each number will take at most $\log(n)$ time. 

Putting everything together, the final complexity should be around ${O}(n \log^2 n)$ time from the Sieve of Eratosthenes and when we insert each prime power into its respective multiset.