---
title: Scary Sagging Stalactites
link: https://codeforces.com/gym/516050/problem/G
problem: 11
---
<cpp>//written by Matthew Chen
#pragma region
#include &lt;bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;
#define int ll
using pii = pair&lt;int,int>;
#define vt vector
#ifndef LOCAL
#pragma GCC optimize("O3,unroll-loops")
#pragma GCC target("avx2,bmi,bmi2,lzcnt,popcnt")
#define debug(...)
#endif
#define fi first
#define se second
#define pb push_back 
#define lb lower_bound
#define ub upper_bound
#define sz(x) (int)(x).size()
#define all(v) v.begin(), v.end()
#define rall(v) v.rbegin(), v.rend()
#define YES cout << "YES" << '\n'
#define NO cout << "NO" << '\n'
#define IMP cout << "IMPOSSIBLE" << '\n'
#define FOR(i,s,e) for (int i = (s); i < (e); ++i) 
#define F0R(i,e) FOR(i,0,e) 
#define ROF(i,s,e) for (int i = (e)-1; i >= (s); --i) 
#define R0F(i,e) ROF(i,0,e) 
#define printv(v,s,e) FOR(i,s,e+1) cout << v[i] << ' '; cout << '\n'
#define ir(...) int __VA_ARGS__; re(__VA_ARGS__);
template&lt;class T> using min_priority_queue = priority_queue&lt;T, vector&lt;T>, greater&lt;T>>;
template&lt;class T, class H> istream& operator>>(istream& in, pair<H, T>& a) {in >> a.fi >> a.se; return in;};
template&lt;typename T> istream& operator>>(istream& in, vector&lt;T>& a) {for(auto &x: a) in >> x; return in;};
template&lt;class T> void re(T &x) {cin >> x;}
template&lt;class H, class... T> void re(H &h, T &...t) { re(h); re(t...); }
#pragma endregion

const int N = 1E5+10;
vt&lt;int> adj[N];
void func(map&lt;int,vt&lt;int>>& mp, vt&lt;array&lt;int,4>>& stor, int typ) {
    for (auto [key,val]: mp) {
        vt&lt;array&lt;int,3>> v;
        for (int i: val) {
            if (typ == 0) v.pb({stor[i][1],stor[i][3]+1,i});
            else v.pb({stor[i][0],stor[i][2]+1,i});
        }
        sort(all(v));//sorted by left
        for (auto [l,r,i]: v) {
            auto a = lb(all(v), array&lt;int,3>{l,0,0});
            auto b = lb(all(v), array&lt;int,3>{r,(int)2e9,(int)2e9});//?
            for (auto it = a; it != b && it != v.end(); it++) {
                if (i != (*it)[2]) {
                    adj[i].pb((*it)[2]);
                    adj[(*it)[2]].pb(i);
                }
            }
        }
        v.clear();
        for (int i: val) {
            if (typ == 0) v.pb({stor[i][3]+1,stor[i][1],i});
            else v.pb({stor[i][2]+1,stor[i][0],i});
        }
        sort(all(v));//sorted by right
        for (auto [r,l,i]: v) {
            auto a = lb(all(v), array&lt;int,3>{l,0,0});
            auto b = lb(all(v), array&lt;int,3>{r,(int)2E9,(int)2E9});//?
            for (auto it = a; it != b && it != v.end(); it++) {
                if (i != (*it)[2]) {
                    adj[i].pb((*it)[2]);
                    adj[(*it)[2]].pb(i);
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
void solve() {
    ir(n,m,k);
    vt&lt;array&lt;int,4>> stor(k);
    F0R(i,k) {
        ir(a,b,c,d);
        stor[i] = {a,b,c,d};
    }
    map&lt;int, vt&lt;int>> x, y;
    F0R(i,k) {
        x[stor[i][0]].pb(i);
        x[stor[i][2]+1].pb(i);
        y[stor[i][1]].pb(i);
        y[stor[i][3]+1].pb(i);
    }
    
    func(x, stor, 0);
    func(y, stor, 1);
    
    //multi bfs
    queue<int> q;
    vt<bool> vis(k,0);
    vt<pii> pa_dist(k, {-1,0});
    F0R(i,k) {
        auto [bx, by, tx, ty] = stor[i];
        if (bx == 0 || ty == m-1) {
            q.push(i);
            vis[i] = 1;
            pa_dist[i] = {-1,0};
        }
    }
    while (sz(q)) {
        int v = q.front();
        q.pop();
        for (int i: adj[v]) if (!vis[i]) {
            vis[i] = 1;
            q.push(i);
            pa_dist[i].fi = v;
            pa_dist[i].se = pa_dist[v].se+1;
        }
    }
    int mn = -1;
    F0R(i,k) {
        auto [bx, by, tx, ty] = stor[i];
        if (vis[i] && (tx == n-1 || by == 0)) {
            if (mn == -1 || pa_dist[mn].se > pa_dist[i].se) {
                mn = i;
            }
        }
    }
    if (mn == -1) {
        cout << -1 << '\n';
        return;
    }
    vt<int> ans = {mn};
    while (pa_dist[mn].fi != -1) {
        mn = pa_dist[mn].fi;
        ans.pb(mn);
    }
    cout << sz(ans) << ' ';
    for (int i: ans) cout << i+1 << ' ';
}
signed main() {
    #ifdef LOCAL
    freopen("txt.in","r",stdin);
    freopen("txt.out","w",stdout);
    #else
    ios_base::sync_with_stdio(0); cin.tie(0);
    #endif
    int t = 1;
    //cin >> t;
    while (t--) {
        solve();
    }
}</cpp>

In essence, we want to choose a set of rectangles such that we can't go from (0,0) to (n-1,m-1)

A useful visualization is turning the set of rectangles a graph. Each rectangle becomes a node and two nodes are connected if their corresponding rectangles share a border (even including just a corner).

Let's label any node with a rectangle that shares a border to the top or left borders of the grid as our "start" nodes. Likewise, label any node with a rectangle that shares a border to the bottom or right borders as "end" nodes.

The problem boils down to finding a path from a "start" to "end" node with minimum length. This can be easily done through a multi-source BFS.

BFS from all the start nodes, then iterate through each "end" node and find the one with minimum distance from the start nodes. Keep in mind that u have to maintain both a distance array and a parent array. The problem also asks for a valid set of rectangles that satisfies the requirement, so we have to find all the nodes on that path.

Now the question is, how do we generate the edges between the nodes?

First, iterate through each distinct x/y value, and find the set, S, of all rectangles that share a border to that same x/y value. This can be done through a ```map<int,vector<int>>``` where the key is the x/y value, and the value is a vector of indices of the rectangles (which we will also use as our node labelling).

Convert each rectangle in S to just [y1,y2] borders of the opposite dimension. For example, if we had rectangles that share a border to x = 5, then look at their corresponding y bounds.
Two rectangles share an x border/corner if there is an intersection of their [y1,y2].

This problem further boils down to finding intersecting intervals per each distinct x and y value.
This can be easily done with binary search for each interval to find other intervals with a left/right border within the current interval.
Then, manually iterate through them to generate edges.

After, just follow the strategy of BFS and minimizing the path.
A proof to the bounds of the graph and time complexity is left as an exercise to the reader.