---
title: Bye Bye! We out! - MAKING HAM KEK
link: https://codeforces.com/gym/516050/problem/H
problem: 12
---
Rough Solution Sketch

(written by Chongtian Ma, idea contributed by Patrick Deng)

We can find all the vertices which are not included in the answer (let's call them bad). A vertex is bad if it can reach another vertex using the edges of the graph that is not included in the tree. In other words, if an edge in the graph provides a "shortcut" compared to the edges in the tree to another vertex, then it is bad. Let dist($u$, $v$) denote the sum of weights from the path from vertices $u$ to $v$ in the tree. For each edge $(u, v, w)$ in the graph, if $w < dist(u, v)$, then we need to process this edge.

To process each of these shortcut edges, we need to find all the vertices they affect. Note that the property of a tree is so that there is at most one path between every pair of vertices. Let's consider the following cases:

1\. The affected node is on the path from $u$ to $v$. We can binary search for these vertices from $u$ to $v$. For instance, vertex $s$ is bad if $dist(u, s) + w < dist(s, v)$ or $dist(s, v) + w < dist(u, s)$. Let's denote two vertices as $x$ and $y$ if the vertices on the path from $u$ to $x$ are all bad and the vertices on the path from $v$ to $y$ are bad.

2\. Let's denote a "hanging tree" off a node $k$ on the path from $u$ to $v$ as a subtree rooted at $k$ and no node in the subtree are on the path from $u$ to $v$. All vertices in hanging trees rooted at any vertex from the path from $u$ to $x$ or the path from $v$ to $y$ should be marked as bad.

We can efficiently calculate the dist function using generic binary lifting. We can mark each hanging tree using prefix-sums, then apply to each node in the subtree through post-processing. Note that the implementation is relatively unpleasant, as there are several cases to consider with LCA (least common ancestor) problems like these (for example, if $u$ is already an ancestor of $y$ or vice versa).

The answer is all of the unmarked vertices.