---
title: Tantilizing Tile Transformations
link: https://codeforces.com/gym/516048/problem/H
problem: 8
---
<cpp>//written by Matthew Chen
#include &lt;bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
#define sz(x) (int)(x).size()
#define FOR(i,s,e) for (int i = (s); i < (e); ++i) 
#define F0R(i,e) FOR(i,0,e) 
template&lt;typename T> istream& operator>>(istream& in, vector&lt;T>& a) {for(auto &x: a) in >> x; return in;};
    
int mx(array&lt;int,4> x) {//max of 0,1,2 color freq's
    return max(x[0], max(x[1], x[2]));
}
void solve() {
    int n; cin >> n;
    vector&lt;vector&lt;int>> grid(n, vector&lt;int>(n));
    cin >> grid;

    //{0, 1, 2, total}
    vector<array<int,4>> row(n), col(n);//frequencies
    vector<pair<int,int>> sweep;
    F0R(i,n) {
        row[i][3] = col[i][3] = n;
        F0R(j,n) {
            row[i][grid[i][j]]++;
            col[j][grid[i][j]]++;
        }
    }
    //populate sweep
    F0R(i,n) {
        if (mx(row[i]) == row[i][3] && mx(row[i]) != row[i][0]) {
            sweep.push_back({i,0ll});
        }
    }
    F0R(j,n) {
        if (mx(col[j]) == col[j][3] && mx(col[j]) != col[j][0]) {
            sweep.push_back({j,1ll});
        }
    }
    vector<array<int,3>> ans;//{row/col type, ind, color}
    while (sz(sweep)) {
        for (auto [ind,typ]: sweep) {
            if (typ == 0) {//process row
                F0R(j,n) if (col[j][3] != 0) {//update cols
                    col[j][grid[ind][j]]--;
                    col[j][3]--;
                }
                int color = 0;
                if (row[ind][1] == mx(row[ind])) color = 1;
                else if (row[ind][2] == mx(row[ind])) color = 2;
                ans.push_back({typ, ind+1, color});
                row[ind] = {0,0,0,0};//delete row
            }
            else {//process col
                F0R(i,n) if (row[i][3] != 0){//update rows
                    row[i][grid[i][ind]]--;
                    row[i][3]--;
                }
                int color = 0;
                if (col[ind][1] == mx(col[ind])) color = 1;
                else if (col[ind][2] == mx(col[ind])) color = 2;
                ans.push_back({typ, ind+1, color});
                col[ind] = {0,0,0,0};//delete col
            }
        }
        sweep.clear();
        //repopulate sweep with new rows/cols
        F0R(i,n) {
            if (mx(row[i]) == row[i][3] && mx(row[i]) != row[i][0]) {
                sweep.push_back({i, 0});
            }
        }
        F0R(j,n) {
            if (mx(col[j]) == col[j][3] && mx(col[j]) != col[j][0]) {
                sweep.push_back({j, 1});
            }
        }
    }
    //check for impossible case
    F0R(i,n) {
        if (row[i][1] || row[i][2] || col[i][1] || col[i][2]) {
            cout << -1 << '\n'; return;
        }
    }
    reverse(ans.begin(), ans.end());
    cout << sz(ans) << '\n';
    for (auto [a,b,c]: ans) {
        cout << a << ' ' << b << ' ' << c << '\n';
    }
}</cpp>

The problem wants you to reconstruct a sequence of transformations which color a row or column as 1 or 2 such that the resulting grid matches with the given grid.

Our solution will go backwards to revert the given grid into a blank grid of 0's. For simplicity, let's assume the grid is guaranteed to have a solution and we'll deal with the impossible case later.

Obviously, there will be some rows or columns with only one color which we can process first. You can imagine that "processing" a row or column as just completely eliminating that row/col from the grid, and snipping the two halves of the grid back together. This is because we can just uncolor that row/col and arbitrarily set the color underneath to fit our situation.

After processing the "obvious" row/col's, it is guaranteed that the concatenated grid will have new "obvious" row/col's to eliminate since the grid has a guaranteed solution. Now, we can rinse and repeat: eliminate those row/col's and snip the grid back together.

As for the case where a solution does not exist, that will be when after eliminating a set of "obvious" row/col's, there exists no more row/col's to process and the grid itself has not become 0.

Overall, the visualization is decently intuitive, the implementation is a bit more tedious though.

Let's maintain 4 additional vectors, ```row```, ```col```, ```sweep```, and ```ans```, aside from our given input grid.

```row``` and ```col``` will store 4 numbers per row/col, the color frequencies of 0,1,2, and the total number of cells in that row/col (you'll see why we want to keep track of this).

```sweep``` will store the rows and columns that we will want to eliminate from the grid.

```ans``` will store the sequence of moves that will be our answer.

Initially, ```sweep``` will contain the "obvious" rows and columns that we can easily eliminate.
We will run through iterations until ```sweep``` becomes empty

In each iteration, process each of the row/col's in ```sweep```. When we process row i for example, we have to update all of the columns. Let the color of that row be c and each column be j, we will decrement both the frequency of ```c``` and the total number of cells in ```col[j]``` by 1. Processing a column is also similar but swapped.

When we process a row/col, we will delete that from ```sweep``` and also push that information into ```ans```

Then, we will go through each row and column and see if all of the total cells are a single color. If so, we will push those new rows and columns into ```sweep```.

Once there are no more new rows and columns to push into sweep, we are done.

All that is left to check is whether there are any nonzero colors in ```row``` and ```col```.

The time complexity is $O(n^2)$ since there are $n$ rows, each of which affects $n$ cols, + $n$ cols, each of which affects $n$ rows, summing to $2n^2$ operations