---
title: Day 6
link: https://adventofcode.com/2021/day/6
problem: 6
---
Part 1
<python># Written by Maxwell Zen
s = open("input.txt", 'r').read()
s = s.split(',')
a = [int(num) for num in s]
for day in range(80):
    b = []
    for i in a:
        if i == 0:
            b += [6, 8]
        else:
            b += [i-1]
    a = b
print(len(a))</python>

In part 1, it's possible to simply brute force your way through the problem. We'll maintain a list of lanternfish, recording how many days each lanternfish has left to go. For each day, we create a new list out of the old one -- lanternfish at 0 days will split into a lanternfish at 6 days and a lanternfish at 8 days, and all other lanternfish will just have their value subtracted by 1. At the end, we return the length of the array as the number of lanternfish.

Part 2
<python># Written by Maxwell Zen
s = open("input.txt", 'r').read()
s = s.split(',')
a = [int(num) for num in s]
count = [a.count(i) for i in range(9)]
for day in range(256):
    nxt = [0]*9
    for i in range(8):
        nxt[i] = count[i+1]
    nxt[8] = count[0]
    nxt[6] += count[0]
    count = nxt
print(sum(count))</python>

After 256 days, the answer will be huge, so it's impossible to brute force keeping track of every lanternfish. Here's the key observation: we can group all lanternfish that have a certain number of days remaining, because the number of days remaining is the only thing that actually matters. So we can keep an array count that records how many lanternfish there are for each number of remaining days. To simulate a day passing, we set the new counts for 0 to 7 days equal to the original counts for 1 to 8 days. Then, to simulate the lanternfish with 0 days left, we add the original count for 0 days to the new counts for 6 and 8 days. Doing this 256 times will yield the answer.