---
title: Day 8
link: https://adventofcode.com/2021/day/8
problem: 8
---
Part 1
<python># Written by Maxwell Zen
lines = open("input.txt", 'r').read().split('\n')
lengths = [2, 3, 4, 7]
ans = 0
for line in lines:
    a,b = line.split(" | ")
    for j in b.split():
        if len(j) in lengths:
            ans+=1
print(ans)</python>

For this part, you don't need to figure out which combination of segments (letters) maps to some digit. Notice that even though the segments have been mixed up, the number of segments that make up a number stays constant. As 1, 4, 7, and 8 each are comprised of a unique number of segments, it is enough to simply count the number of strings on the right of the "|" whose length is 2, 4, 3, or 7 respectively.

Part 2
<python># Written by Maxwell Zen
# letters corresponding to each digit
codes = ["abcefg", "cf", "acdeg", "acdfg", "bcdf",
"abdfg", "abdefg", "acf", "abcdefg", "abcdfg"]

lines = open("input.txt", 'r').read().split('\n')
total = 0

# frequencies of characters in four and not in four
infour = {6:'b', 7:'d', 8:'c', 9:'f'}
notfour = {4:'e', 7:'g', 8:'a'}

for line in lines:
    digits, output = line.split(" | ")
    decode = {}

    # find word corresponding to four
    for word in digits.split():
        if len(word) == 4:
            four = word

    # decode each letter
    for letter in "abcdefg":
        frequency = digits.count(letter)
        if letter in four:
            decode[letter] = infour[frequency]
        else:
            decode[letter] = notfour[frequency]

    output = output.split()
    val = 0
    for word in output:
        # decode each letter, then sort the characters
        letters = (decode[letter] for letter in word)
        translated = ''.join(sorted(letters))
        # update the output value
        val *= 10
        val += codes.index(translated)
    total += val
print(total)</python>

The challenge here is to decode the scrambled letters. One method is to bash through every possible permutation of the segments, finding a permutation that works and using it to decode the output value. However, there's an even cleaner solution. We can count the number of times each segment appears in the digits from 0 to 9 and try to find a pattern there. e appears 4 times, b appears 6 times, d and g both appear 7 times, a and c both appear 8 times, and f appears 9 times. So the letters corresponding to e, b, and f can be found right away. In order to figure out which letters correspond to d/g and a/c, we can look at the digit 4 (which we can find since it's the only one to have length 4). Since d and c are both in 4, but g and a aren't, we can use that information to distinguish between d/g and a/c, unscrambling the letters. Finally, use this information to decode the output value, and you're done.